In the previous video, we learned about the
Django basic concept. And In this video we
and in this will learn about urls and views deeply. Later,
we will create some page in our project
so we can get better understanding about urls
and views in Django.
But before that, let’s review our code from
previous video first.
This is the ulrs.py file inside our first_project
directory, here we can see that we have admin
urls and root url. The root urls is redirected
to app1.urls, which is urls.py file inside
app1, let’s take a look to that file.
Here we can see that the root urls is redirected
to hello_world function inside views.
Let's take a look at views.py file, here we can
see that hello_world function is returning
simple html expressions “Selamat datang
di Django”
Let’s open our browser and navigate to 127.0.0.1:8000.
Here we get Selamat datang di Django.
Now let’s do some experiments.
Back to visual studio code and manipulate
urls.py file inside first_project directory.
Let’s add app1 here, don’t forget to always
add / in the end of the url.
Let’s back to the browser, refresh, here
we get a 404 error. We can see here that the
available url is admin and app1, Now let’s
try to add app1 in the url.
Here we can see that now we get Selamat datang di Django.
Let’s do another experiment, go back to
vscode, and edit urls.py file inside app1
directory. Let’s add hello_world here. Don’t
forget to always add / in the end of the url.
Let’s back to browser and refresh. Here
we can see that we get 404 error, and we also
see that the available url is admin and app1/hello_world.
That’s why when we try to access only app1
we get a 404 error. Now let’s try to add
hello_world in the url. Okay Cool ! now we
get Selamat datang di Django.
Okay, Let’s do an experiment again, let’s
try to add a new url. Here in the urls.py
file inside app1 directory, let’s add a
new url, let’s say a. This is just for experiment,
you can put whatever you want here. This url
will be redirected to a function inside views
Now we need to create a function in the views,
go to views, and here let’s add a function.
Let’s say we want to display “This is
A”.
Let’s back to browser, navigate to 127.0.0.1:8000/app1/a.
Okay now we get “This is A”
Let’s try to add one more url,
let’s say
we want to add b.
This url will be redirected to b function inside views.
Let’s create b function inside views.py
file. Let’s say we want to display “This is B"
Back to browser again, change a with b, and
here we are. Now we get “This is B”
Okay now let’s try to test all of our url,
let’s change b to hello_world.
Okay we get Selamat datang di Django. Change hello_world
to a. Okay we get “This is A”, and let’s
change again to b. Okay we get “This is
B”.
Okay I think we already done some experiment
and I hope you guys understand about urls
and views concept in Django. If you think that
you are not fully understand the concept,
I recommend you to rewatch this video. Or
if you have further question, you can ask
me and I will do my best to answer all of
your questions.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video!